To convey Bible truth correctly,
we must read from the Bible
and our Christian publications accurately.
To do this, we must prepare well,
pronounce each word correctly,
and speak clearly.
As our brother reads Matthew 24:43, 44,
try to identify
some common mistakes made in reading.
To answer that question,
notice what the Bible says at Matthew 24:43, 44:
“But know one more thing: If the housekeeper
had known when the thief was comin,’
“he woulda kept awake and not allowed
his house to be broken in two.
“On this account,
you two prove yourselves ready,
because the Son of God is comin’
at an hour that you do not think it to be.”
Do you think that the householder
might have been distracted by the reading?
Likely.
Making any of these errors could convey
a lack of respect for the material
or change the meaning of the verse.
Let’s watch a better example.
To answer that question,
notice what the Bible says at Matthew 24:43, 44:
“But know one thing:
“If the householder
had known in what watch the thief was coming,
“he would have kept awake
“and not allowed his house to be broken into.
“On this account, you too
prove yourselves ready,
because the Son of man is coming
at an hour that you do not think to be it.”
Much better!
To become effective at reading aloud,
we should work to develop good habits
in our personal reading.
Strive to understand the meaning
and to observe all punctuation marks.
For instance, at Matthew 8:3,
Jesus did not say to the leper:
“I want to be made clean,”
but rather: “I want to! Be made clean.”
Running through the exclamation point
completely changes the meaning.
In other verses,
we have to emphasize the right words
in order to convey the intended meaning.
For instance, how would you read 1 John 2:1?
Let’s watch.
“My little children, I am writing you these things
“so that you may not commit a sin.
“And yet, if anyone does commit a sin,
we have a helper with the Father,
Jesus Christ, a righteous one.”
Because the brother stressed the word “father,”
he gave the impression
that Jesus Christ is the Father,
which was clearly not the writer’s intent.
Let’s give our brother another chance.
“My little children, I am writing you these things
“so that you may not commit a sin.
“And yet, if anyone does commit a sin,
“we have a helper with the Father,
Jesus Christ, a righteous one.”
This time, the speaker made it clear
that the helper is Jesus Christ.
We should also be careful
not to place undue emphasis on function words,
such as prepositions and conjunctions.
For instance,
at 1 Timothy 4:16, instead of reading
“you will save both yourself
and those who listen to you,”
why not emphasize the verb
to convey the full meaning of the text?
“You will save both yourself
and those who listen to you.”
Clearly, there is more to accurate reading
than simply pronouncing words correctly,
yet even that can be a challenge at times.
Where can you find help
to pronounce a word or name correctly
—even Bible names?
You can look them up in a dictionary,
listen to an audio recording of the publication,
or ask a good reader for help.
Accurate reading adds to the dignity
of the message we preach.
It allows our listener to focus on the message
rather than be sidetracked by any mistakes.
Most important, it honors Jehovah God.